# 0.0 Introduction
NodeJS is often associated with the popular NoSQL database MongoDB which is, by default, the most JavaScript friendly database. It uses a JSON similar data storage type (called BSON). 
NoSQL databases have the advantage that you don't have to "waste" too much time, defining data structures and possible relationships. Additionally, they are great getting your project quickly production up and running and don't enforce field constraints.

When starting a new NodeJS project, however, you shouldn't just accept MongoDB as the default choice. Instead, the type of database you choose should depend on your project's requirements. Sometimes you want to use an ACID compliant database. [ACID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID), in short, means that a full database task either succeeds or fails. There are no missing values because some parts of a transaction threw an error. These are some crucial advantages needed by banks and eCommerce websites. The most popular ACID compliant databases are SQL databases.


### Why Knex.js and Objection.js
Node.js doesn't provide a simple way out of the box to connect to databases due to its general-purpose nature. Of course, there are packages like **pg** (for PostgreSQL - SQL Database) or **mongoose** (for MongoDB - NoSQL Database) to interact directly to your database, but if your application gets big enough, managing connection and queries through these packages can become a pain quickly.

**Sequelize** is another popular package that creates a connection between NodeJS and a SQL database; however, the code of it is so much abstracted that it doesn't feel like SQL anymore. Additionally, some people online complain that Sequelize can become an annoyance, and the package is not well documented.

**Knex.js** and **Objection.js** combined are an alternative to many **SQL database** connection and ORM packages (Knex.js and Objection.js are only used with SQL databases). It probably has a steeper learning curve, but many people online swear that after they migrated from Sequelize to Knex.js and Objection.js, they never looked back.
Knex.js is the package used to execute database queries. Objection.js is the package used to create a unified representation of a database table with many features, without actually defining the database schema.

As you've already noticed, the choice of using Knex.js and Objection.js for SQL databases here is made based on third party opinions. Still, those opinions should be highlighted to give some hints about the advantages these packages could provide.

### Choice of SQL database
Knex.js, the tool which manages the database (and not Objection.js), supports PostgreSQL, MSSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, SQLite3, Oracle, and Amazon Redshift.

After I worked some time Knex.js and Objection.js, I would personally recommend using these tools only in combination with PostgreSQL databases.
Only PostgreSQL enables all features of Knex.js and Objection.js where other SQL databases have problems.

For example, when inserting multiple rows, only PostgreSQL can return all of the inserted rows in the same query. Other SQL databases only returns the first inserted row.

This whole guidebook is based on MySQL simplicity reasons.

### Requirements
For you to continue, you should have a general knowledge of REST APIs, NodeJS, Express, and MySQL.


### What you need
Make sure that you have the following tools installed on your computer:
- [Node.js with NPM](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- A MySQL database, I recommend using [XAMPPs MySQL Database ](https://www.apachefriends.org/download_success.html) (Install the whole program, but we only need the MySQL database of it)
- [Postman to test the API](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)


## The project
We are going to build a todo system with users and todo's. 
You should be able to:
- request all users from the REST API
- request all todos from the REST API
- request specific todos and the related user from the REST API
I.e., we have two tables with relationships between them.
- send a POST request with user input to create a new user