# 1.1 Knex.js Setup
In *Chapter 0.0 - Introduction*, we mentioned that we would use the MySQL database shipped with XAMPP, but you are not bound to use XAMPP or MySQL altogether.
Knex.js supports Postgres, MSSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, SQLite3, Oracle, and Amazon Redshift.

#### 1. Create the database
Before we can use Knex.js, we have to create the database manually. Our database name is going to be *node_todo*.

Run the XAMPP app and start the MySQL module.
Then connect to your database either using a terminal or phpMyAdmin, which is delivered with the XAMPP installation.

Connecting using the terminal:
```shell
mysql -u root
```
<sup>You maybe have a user with a password. Connect accordingly.</sup>

After you connected in the terminal or phpMyAdmin, create a new database.

Creating a database using the terminal:
```shell
CREATE DATABASE node_todo CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
```

#### 2. Install Knex.js
Head back to your project and run in your terminal:
```shell
npm install knex --save
```
**If you haven't installed knex globally yet, do so.**
```shell
npm install knex -g
```
The reason behind this is that you want to run `knex` commands in the terminal too. Installing it globally, you can do so without troubleshooting issues depending on your operating system.

#### 3. Install MySQL client
The connection between MySQL and NodeJS is actually made by a different package (called the client).
Therefore, we have to install the additional package called `mysql` for our MySQL database.
In your terminal, type:
```shell
npm install --save mysql
```

> **`mysql` vs `mysql2` ?**
> If you search online, you'll find that there are two major mysql clients for NodeJS, `mysql` and `mysql2`. They are both supported in the same way, so it doesn't matter which one to use. Many implementations go with `mysql`.

#### 4. Initialize Knex.js
Run in your terminal:

```shell
knex init
```
This initializes the project with knex and generates a file named **knexfile.js**, which holds the database connection configurations.


#### 5. Create the database config file and directory
You want to separate the database connection credentials in a project and remove it from a version control system such as *git*. Only a template of how these credentials are stored should be published online, never the real credentials file.

Therefore are we going to create a new directory with two files:
**/config/db_config.js** - contains the real credentials and should be ignored in .gitignore
```js
module.exports = {
  host: "127.0.0.1",
  database: "node_todo",
  user: "root",
  password: ""
};
```

**/config/db_template.js** - contains the template of how credentials are stored, should be published with the project
```js
module.exports = {
    host: "127.0.0.1",
    database: 'my_database',
    user:     'username',
    password: 'password'
};
```

#### 6. Configure knexfile.js
If you open the **knexfile.js**, you'll see that there are many setups to connect to production, development, and staging database.
However, we only have the MySQL database, which we use to develop the project locally.

Therefore, import the */config/db_config.js* credentials and configure the development database accordingly.

**knexfile.js**
```js
const credentials = require('./config/db_config.js');

module.exports = {
  development: {
    client: 'mysql',
    connection: {
      database:   credentials.database,
      user:           credentials.user,
      password:   credentials.password
    }
  }
};
```
The client field uses the previously installed `mysql` package. It is the field that tells Knex.js which third party client it should use to connect to the database. Other databases, like PostgreSQL, need a different client, and you can find the correct packages on Knex.js documentation websites.